			Epson s1d13522 e-ink controller

Maintained by Yury Grechishchev <yury.grechishchev@yotadevices.com>
	      Dmitry Ivanov <dmitriy.ivanov@yotadevices.com>

s1d13522fb is a driver for the Epson e-ink display controller.
The S1D13522 controller needs to be programmed with a command file prior to
rendering any images. If you have a command file for the S1D13522 chip, but it
is named differently, rename it to "epson/cmds1d13522.fw". Driver programs the
S1D13522 controller during the driver initialization sequence.
The driver expects the command file "epson/cmds1d13522.fw".

Driver Design
-------------

The driver is designed using a virtual frame buffer. A virtual frame buffer
allocates kernel memory and allows the memory to be mapped into the user space.
A user space  application can read/write this memory as if it were the display
memory. The device driver periodically copies the virtual frame buffer into the
real display memory using deferred IO and conversion algorithms.


Limitations
--------------
s1d13522fb provide a generic interfaces for configuration and data,
but it is ultimately limited by specific e-paper operation modes and
communication interface

- Lack of any type of acceleration.
- A strict and limited set of supported video modes. Currently only
  RGB565 and BGRA888.
- Frame rate limited by drawing speed of e-paper also depend on temperature.



The sysfs interface
----------------------

s1d13522fb provides several sysfs nodes for configurable parameters and
additional information. Driver nodes are available on path
/sys/class/graphics/fbX/ where X the number of framebuffer device.


clear_artifacts		Write		Set flag for next screen update to
					be FULL (slow, but remove ghosting),
					this flag automatically reset to 0 after
					first FULL update.
					Allowed values: 0, 1

update_disable		Write		Disable screen updating while this
					flag sets to 1. However image data will
					be transfered to display controller
					memory but not displayed.
					Allowed values: 0, 1

update_area		Write		Trigger update for display rectangle
					region. It could be used with disabled
					updates flag for animation purpose,
					sequential regions update and crop
					updates. The format of input string is:
					"TOPXxTOPY BOTTOMXxBOTTOMY"

dithering_select	Read/Write	Select dithering algorithm/display
					operation mode. Actually s1d13522
					controller works in two generic modes
					black-white and 16 grayscale. The
					black-white mode is pretty fast but
					display only 2 colors. Image displayed
					in this mode should be prepared with
					dithering algorithm. Selecting one of
					dithering algorithm except algorithms
					with prefix "_16" on the end of name
					automatically switch controller to
					b-w mode. Selecting algorithm with
					prefix "_16" switch it back to
					grayscale mode. Available algorithms
					could be read from this node, current
					algorithm will be selected by brackets
					"[]" around name.

raw_data		Read/Write	This node allows to get access to raw
					data which will transfered directly
					from/to display controller. It could be
					useful in debugging purposes.
					Writing in this node will perform
					sending of written data to controller
					memory and triggering screen updates
					with current preferences.

temperature		Read/Write	For normal operating s1d13522 display
					controller should know current
					temperature of e-ink screen to
					use it for waveform correction.
					For this purpose framebuffer has
					kernel temperature worker which
					wakes each 5 min and refresh
					operating temperature.
					If it is required automatic temperature
					correction can disabled by
					writing user value in range (-20 .. 50)
					To enable automatic temperature
					correction write "auto".
					To get current average value provided
					by board thermal sensors just read it
					from this node.

